# Demo PyQt 5
The purpose of the application is to show graphics for an EDA Analysis, as well as the results of two machine learning algorithms base on the happiness datasets. The research question used to create this project is *“Can economic indicators like GDP, GINI, and governance performance indicators predict the status of happiness reported by the Canadian Institute of Advanced Research".*

The structure of the dataset is as follows:

**Independant Variable -- X**
*Happiness Score 

**Dependant Variables(Features) -- y**
* GDP 
* GINI ( Economic indicator for income inequality )
* VoiceandAccountability
* PoliticalStabilityNoViolence
* GovermentEffectiveness
* RegulatoryQuality
* RuleofLaw
* ControlofCorruption

**Machine Leaning algorithms**
* Decision Tree
* Random Tree Classifier

# Description of files 

**Main.py** is the python file that contains all the code for the demo

**2017.csv** is the initial datasets, it is raw data that is used in the first graphic of the application.

**final_happiness_dataset.csv** is the processed dataset that is used in most of the graphs and in the ML algorithms

**analisis.png and enter.png** are icons that are used in the menu items in the application

all the files need to be located in the same directory

# Technical considerations

1. Main is PYQ5 application, thus, pyq5 needs to be installed in the computer in order to execute this app.

2. The application also uses graphviz-2.38, be user to have it installed in the computer

    The directory that uses this application for graphviz-2.38 is:
    
       'C:\\Program Files (x86)\\graphviz-2.38\\release\\bin'
       
    If you have it installed in another path, change this path at the top of the Main.py file.

3. The applicaiton also uses a *font_size_window = 'font-size:15px'* at the top of the Main.py file, if you wich , it can be changed, just be sure to use the correct sintax for your stylesheet font size.


# Description of the application 

The purpose of the application is to present a basic EDA analysis of the processed dataset and two dashboards with the results of the algoritms. The algorithms used are Random Forest Classifier and Decision Tree. These two models can be run separately but the complement each other since both gives information that is relevant for making recommendadtions.

The structure of the application is as follows 

1. File
    >* **Exit :** it quits  the application
   
2. EDA Analysis
    >* **Initial Assesment :** This option presents a frequency histogram. It groups the number of countries by happiness score.
    >* **Happiness Final :** This option presents a dot plot that shows the relation of each feature in the final datasets with the happiness score. A line can be drawn optionally to represent the tendency of the data.
    >* **Correlation Plot :** This option presents a correlation plot for all the features in the dataset. The features can be add o deleted from the plot. Each time that a modification is made the button **Create Plot** should be pressed.
    
3. ML Models
    >* **Decision Tree Algorithm :** 
    >>* This option creates a dashboard with all the results from the Decision Tree results given by the Sikit-learn library. 
    >>* The features to be included in the algorithm are chosen. However, you can manipulate how many feature by manipulating the checkboxes in the screen. 
    >>* The application also presents the percentage of the datasset used for training  and the maximum depth of the three. These parameters can be changed, as well. 
    >>* Once you are comfortable with the chosen features and parameters you can click **Excute DT** to populate the dashboard with the data. 
    >>* You can execute the algorithms as many times as you wish. The dashboard will erase the previous results and present the new ones. 
    >>* To view the tree generated by the algorithm you will need to press the button **View Tree**. This button will open an additional window showing the pdf with the tree. This pdf is saved in the directory of your application with the name decision_tree_entropy.pdf
    
    
    >* **Random Forest Classifier :** 
    >>* This option creates a dashboard with all the results from the Random Classifier algorithm results given by the Sikit-learn library. 
    >>* The features to be included in the algorithm are chosen. However, you can manipulate how many feature by manipulating the checkboxes in the screen. 
    >>* The application also presents the percentage of the datasetset used for training. These parameters can be changed, as well. 
    >>* Once you are comfortable with the chosen features and parameters you can click **Excute RF** to populate the dashboard with the data. 
    >>* You can execute the algorithms as many times as you wish. The dashboard will erase the previous results and present the new ones. 
    

    
